Internet Programming
--------------------

Purpose
-------

The purpose of the course is to experience and learn the major features
of Internet Programming.  The course uses both lectures and a "hands-on"
approach.  This enables students to observe demonstrations and sufficient
time to develop and work with real-world programs.

Objectives
----------
Understand the Internet Protocols
Learn to program in Perl
Learn to use the VC++ Internet classes
Learn client and server-side programming
Learn to program server-side databases 
Learn to use and develop ActiveX components

Audience, Equipment and Deliverables
------------------------------------

The target audience is experienced Software Development Engineers.
Experience with Windows NT, Visual C++ and Web Browsers is assumed.
Some experience COM is desirable.  Every student is supplied with a
Workstation running Windows NT4.0.

Every student is provided with a workbook which contains copies
of all slides and printed copies of the main codes being demonstrated.
Sources of additional materials and useful web sites are listed
in the workbook.

The course materials will be collected into an Internet Web Site.
The materials will be made available as a compressed archive
for a few weeks before and after the course for students to
collect from http://www.rmsc.demon.co.uk/files/InternetCourse.zip

The slides for the course will be available directly from:
http://www.rmsc.demon.co.uk/InternetCourse/web/course.htm

Programme
---------

Saturday     09.00 - 10.30 Introduction
6 March                    Perl
1999                       TCP/IP & Prototocols
                           CGI and Scripts
                           HTTP Servers
                           HTML
             10.30 - 12.30 Hands on session
             12.30 - 13.30 Lunch
             
             13.30 - 14.30 Internet Client Programs
                           Ping, Finger, News, Telnet and HTTP
                           Winsock and WinInet
                           Building your own browser
                           Uploading files to the Net
                           DHTML and Java
                           Netscape Plug-Ins
             15.00 - 16.00 Hands on session
            
             16.00 - 17.00 Internet Server Programs
                           Configuring IIS
                           ISAPI DLLs
                           ISAPI Filters
             17.00 - 18.00 Hands on session
         

Sunday       09.00 - 10.30 Internet Server Programs
7 March                    Building a database in Perl
1999                       Active Server Pages
                           VBScript
                           PerlScript
                           JavaScript
                           On-line databases
             10.30 - 12.30 Hands on session
             12.30 - 13.30 Lunch
             
             13.30 - 15.00 ActiveX, COM and ATL
                           Using Active X Components
                           Placing ActiveX components on Web Pages
                           Building Active X components
                           Building HTTP Client applications
             15.00 - 17.30 Hands on session
       
       
Books                               
-----                               
The following books will be on-hand and will be discussed:

Active Server Pages 2.0    Wrox
Programming Visual C++     MSPress
Active Visual J++          MSPress

Programming Perl           O'Reilly
Perl Cookbook              O'Reilly
CGI Programming            O'Reilly

Perl in a Nutshell         O'Reilly
Internet in a Nutshell     O'Reilly
Java in a Nutshell         O'Reilly

TCP/IP Network Admin       O'Reilly
Netscape Plug-Ins Dev Kit  Que

MSJ Articles
------------
The following MSJ Articles will be on-hand and discussed:

Jun 98   How to Design Reusable HTTP Components by Exploting WinInet and COM
Apr 98   Take IIS Customization to the Next level by Writing ISAPI Filters
May 96   Writing Interactive Web Apps is a Piece of Cake with the ISAPI Classes
Feb 96   Write a Simple HTTP-based Server Using MFC and Windows Sockets
Oct 94   Getting Wired into the Internet: A Crash Course on FTP, Web, and more

Software
--------
The following software tools will be used:

Visual C++ v5.0            Microsoft
Active Server Pages        Microsoft (v1.15 from NT4 SP3 CD)
Perl v5.008 for NT         ActiveState
Time Server                Roberson Computer Consulting
Finger Server              EMWAC
Telnet Server              Seattle Labs
Acrobat Reader             Adobe Systems
Internet RFC CD            Demon Internet
 
Other Subjects
--------------

There are still a number of matters which are not covered in this agenda.
These are:

1.  XML - the next generation of Web content.
    
2.  Security and Certificates

3.  Java Programming
    Although I will demonstrate how to include Java in Web pages,
    this course is not designed to teach the Java language.

4.  Netscape Plug-Ins
    It's possible to write plugins for NetScape and Explorer - for example
    the Adobe Acrobat Viewer.  Although these will be demonstrated, the
    implementation is not discussed in this course.

5.  Creating Pages and Graphics for the Web
    Pages    - Using PageMill, CyberStudio or FrontPage or CyberStudio
    Graphics - Using ImageReady, PhotoShop or Illustrator
    
    
History
-------
05.Feb.99 RM Version 3 - Modified book list.  Spelling corrections.
16.Jan.99 RM Version 2 - Updated to reflect actual course content
                         Added Books, Software and MSJ Articles
                         Replaced CD with Web delivery
02.Jan.99 RM Version 1 - for Comment
